# Optimal_Strategies_in_RCV
This repository contains codes that can be used to find optimal vote-addition strategies in ranked-choice voting (RCV). 

We develop a computational framework to find optimal vote-addition strategies for each candidate -- if we want a candidate to place in the top $k$ of the election, what is the optimal (requiring the minimum number of additional ranked ballots) vote addition strategy? Our algorithmic framework is as follows (and as detailed in our paper), given $n$ candidates and $m$ unique voter ballots.

(1) Each set of ballots induces a \textit{structure}, referring to the outcome order (main-structure) and the round-specific elimination or winning order (sub-structure). Of course, given an initial set of votes, one can reach any alternative structure by adding enough votes.  Given a budget of $B$ additional votes, we first develop an algorithm to optimally (if possible) reach a given structure in $O(mn)$ time. Then, a binary search on the budget $B$ yields the optimal strategy to efficiently reach a given structure. 

However, with many candidates, there are a prohibitively large number of structures: there are $n!$ possible orders (main structures), of which the candidate would be in the top $k$ in $k \times (n - 1)!$ main structures. Each main structure has $2^{n-1}$ sub-structures. Naively, then, finding an optimal strategy requires finding the minimum vote additions over $k \times (n - 1)! \times 2^{n-1}$ structures.  

(2) Thus, we develop approaches to reduce the election size, \textit{without} affecting the optimality of the calculated strategies. (a) Given a budget of $B$ additional votes and status quo vote data, we next give an algorithm with $O(mn^4)$ complexity that removes a set of irrelevant candidates who will be eliminated first regardless of how the $B$ votes are added. (b) We show that for any set of $k$ winners, there are only $\sum_{j=1}^k {n \choose k}$ feasible substructures. Then, we show how to reduce the number of substructures further given status quo vote data. We give an algorithm with $O(mn^2)$ complexity that reduces the number of feasible sub-structures that can lead to an optimal win. 
